# Shadow's Preferences Menu™️v1.0

This folder controls the entire /datum/preferences UI.

## Overview

[ui_interaction.dm](ui_interaction.dm) has the primary TGUI configuration,
such as /ui_interaction, /ui_close, and /ui_state.

[preview_view.dm](preview_view.dm) has everything related to the ByondUi
element which displays a character preview.

[helpers.dm](helpers.dm) has a handful of helper procs that don't fit
anywhere else.

### [act](act/) and [data](data/)

These folders contains the /ui_act entry point at [\_act.dm](act/_act.dm),
and the /ui_data entry point at [\_data.dm](data/_data.dm),

In order to maintain mental reasoning around the highly complex and dense
functionality of the prefs menu, each of these procs are broken up
into trees of subprocs, which end up building the entire functionality of
the prefs menu together.

It's important to understand that most of this is "fake" and merely increases
mental separation, to make work on the prefs menu easier.

There is no "real" data segregation except at the
Tab (Character / Game Settings / Keybindings) level,
as DM is unaware of which subtab is being viewed.

For ui_data, at the boundary between DM and JS, every subproc's data is
flattened into a single linear list, save for deliberate structures
generated by the leaf nodes (last procs in the tree).

The same is true for ui_act, where behavior is built up by a tree of procs.
Currently, ui_act leaves are executed one by one in alphabetical order until
something returns non-zero. Accordingly, you should not expect to only receive
acts relevant to your proc! Every single action will traverse the whole ui_act
tree until it encounters something that returns TRUE upon seeing it.

There is room for optimization here, by mapping act names directly to
procs which handle it, but this has not proved necessary so far, as BYOND
executes 10 switch statements with no match quickly enough to not be
noticable.

## Code Style Rules

To make this approach work, it is critical to follow strict code style
and layout rules. Listed below are the general rules to follow to ensure
the prefs menu remains maintainable.

### Separate each Tab and Subtab into their own files OR folders.

Each TGUI Tab & Subtab should have exactly one act file and exactly one data file
handling every action it can take and every piece of data it needs accordingly.

As the UI grows, we need more and more nested modules to maintain separation
of concerns. Follow the same file layout as [Rust 2018 Modules](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/items/modules.html#module-source-filenames).

See the table below for an example:

| Hierarchy                                                                                                         | TGUI Path                                                                                                                                                           | Act Path                                                               | Data Path                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Character Sheet                                                                                                   | [tabs/CharacterSheet.tsx](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/tabs/CharacterSheet.tsx)                                                                   | [act/character_sheet.dm](act/character_sheet.dm)                       | [data/character_sheet.dm](data/character_sheet.dm)                       |
| Character Sheet/Class                                                                                             | [tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs/Class.tsx](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs/Class.tsx)                                       | [act/character_sheet/class.dm](act/character_sheet/class.dm)           | [data/character_sheet/class.dm](data/character_sheet/class.dm)           |
| [Character Sheet/Appearance/FeatureChoice](## "This is a component that grew too big, and does not need DM code") | [tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs/Appearance/FeatureChoice.tsx](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs/Appearance/FeatureChoice.tsx) | [act/character_sheet/appearance.dm](act/character_sheet/appearance.dm) | [data/character_sheet/appearance.dm](data/character_sheet/appearance.dm) |
| Game Settings                                                                                                     | [tabs/GamePreferences.tsx](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/tabs/GamePreferences.tsx)                                                                 | [act/game_settings.dm](act/game_settings.dm)                           | [data/game_settings.dm](data/game_settings.dm)                           |

If a piece of data or an action is required by multiple subtabs or tabs, lift
it up to the according index file, such as [data/character_sheet/character_sheet.dm](data/character_sheet/character_sheet.dm)
or [act.dm](act.dm).

Ideally you should put it in an existing proc such as `ui_data_character_sheet_all_pages`.

### Maintain file-wise parity between Act, Data, and TGUI

In order to easily navigate between the UI code and the DM backend,
ensure that act, data, and TGUI files for each Subtab are named the same
thing.

Use snake_case for the DM files, and UpperCamelCase for the TGUI files.

For example, the Character Sheet Tab has the Subtab [Class](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs/Class.tsx).
Accordingly, it is located in Class.tsx in the directory tabs/CharacterSheet/subtabs.

On the DM side, there is [data/character_sheet/class.dm](data/character_sheet/class.dm) and
[act/character_sheet/class.dm](act/character_sheet/class.dm).

### Name your Act and Data subprocs after their full hierarchy

In order to avoid any name conflicts, use the full hierarchy of a subproc
in their names.

For example, ui_act -> ui_act_for_tab -> ui_act_character_sheet -> ui_act_character_sheet_appearance -> ui_act_character_sheet_appearance_body

These proc names are ugly and long, but predictable. Given that they are only
meant to be called by their parent in the tree anyways, this isn't a problem.

### Use the most specific type(s) possible for useBackend.

If your component only needs one specific piece of data, use the
smallest and most specific available data types to extract it.

For example, say we need the current slot ID and the character's real name. Instead of

```js
const { data } = useBackend<CharacterSheetData>();
```

you should use

```js
const { data } = useBackend<CharacterSelectData & BasicCharacterData>();
```

This makes it clear to other developers what [data/](data/) files are being
used for a given component, rather than requiring them to track it down.

### Data procs should specify all possible keys in their initial var/list/data = list(), even when null.

This allows you to see at a glance what keys will be populated with this data proc.

#### Bad:

```js
var/list/data = list()
if(meow)
    data["meow"] = get_object()
else
    data["meow"] = null
```

#### Good:

```js
var/list/data = list(
    "meow" = null,
)

if(meow)
    data["meow"] = get_object()
```

## Downstream Support

This UI has been built with downstream modifications in mind!
Ideally, downstreams will never have to manage a full unsynced clone of the
PreferencesMenu TGUI folder.

This is accomplished with two main concepts:

- Scattered around the code are comments starting with the text
  `INSTRUCTIONS FOR DOWNSTREAM`.
    - Use these comments to guide your modification of the system in a merge
      friendly manner.
    - If you find something you need to change that can't be done modularly,
      consider making a PR upstream to make it modular! For an example, look at
      how `/datum/preferences/proc/handle_title_pref_selection()` and it's call
      site work.
    - Also keep in mind that you can do something like the below example.
      This is a secondary option because it may require code duplication;
      use your best judgement for which option is more appropriate for a given
      situation.

```dm
// modular/override.dm
/datum/preferences/ui_act_character_sheet(action, list/params, datum/tgui/ui, datum/ui_state/state)
    if(action == "existing_action_handled_elsewhere")
        return TRUE // control flow never reaches parent

    . = ..()
```

- The UI itself has a folder, [PreferencesMenu/downstream](/tgui/packages/tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/downstream)
  which contain stub components that have been preplaced in ideal locations
  of the DOM tree to extend the UI in a way that blends in with original
  components.
    - This folder and files within should only be modified by upstream when
      there is a critical change to some core part of the prefs menu
      that requires downstreams to take action.
    - This space should be mostly safe from merge conflicts as a result, so
      downstreams should use these files to implement their custom logic.
    - Recommendation for downstream developers: Use
      `git checkout --ours tgui/interfaces/PreferencesMenu/downstream` when doing
      a merge that conflicts, and manually review what changes upstream has made
      to these files.
    - Pay attention to `INSTRUCTIONS FOR DOWNSTREAM` comments in the UI as well:
      not everything can be done with the downstream folder.
